I/???    Catalogs of star positions along 10 large TNOs' sky paths for 2008-2015
         (Assafin+, 2012)
================================================================================
         Candidate stellar occultations by large TNOs up to 2015
         Assafin M., Camargo J.I.B., Vieira Martins R., Braga-Ribas F.,
         Sicardy B., Andrei A.H., da Silva Neto D.N., 
         <Astron. Astrophys. ???, ??? (2012)>
         =2012A&A...???..????
================================================================================
ADC_Keywords: Astrometry - Occultations - Planets and asteroids: individual:
              Eris, Haumea, Makemake, Quaoar, Orcus, Sedna, Varuna, Ixion,
              2002TX300, 2003AZ84

Keywords:     Astrometry - Catalogs - Occultations -Planets and asteroids:
              individual: Eris, Haumea, Makemake, Quaoar, Orcus, Sedna, Varuna,
              Ixion, 2002TX300, 2003AZ84

Abstract:
The catalogs of star positions for 10 large transneptunian objects (TNOs)
covering their sky paths for 2008-2015 were built to support precise
astrometric predictions for stellar occultations by Eris, Haumea, Makemake,
Quaoar, Orcus, Sedna, Varuna, Ixion, 2002TX300 and 2003AZ84 for this period.
For that, we have carried out during 2007-2009 an observational program at the
ESO2p2/WFI instrument covering their 2008-2015 sky paths. We made the
astrometry of 316 GB of images with the Platform for Reduction of Astronomical
Images Automatically (PRAIA). By relatively simple astrometric techniques, we
treated the overlapping observations and derived a field distortion pattern for
the WFI mosaic of CCDs to within 50 mas precision. Positions were obtained in
the UCAC2 frame with errors of 40 mas for stars up to the magnitude
completeness (about R = 19). New stellar proper motions were also determined
with 2MASS and the USNO B1.0 catalog positions as first epoch. Astrometric
catalogs with proper motions were produced for each TNO, containing more than
5.35 million stars covering the sky paths with 30 arcmin width. The magnitude
completeness is about R = 19 with a limit about R = 21. We highlight the
usefulness of this catalog as a reference frame for star/body astrometric
follow-up before and after future stellar occultations involving these TNOs. In
this way, updates for the ephemeris offsets of these bodies and for the
position of star candidates for occultations can be enhanced. Besides, the
catalogs also furnish useful photometric information for field and candidate
stars in the preparation of campaigns and flux calibrations of observed light
curves. 

Description:
The catalog consists of (RA, DEC) star positions in the ICRS (J2000) at mean
epoch of observation, proper motions and R magnitudes (J, H and K magnitudes
are also furnished in the case of 2MASS stars). The mean epoch of observation
is given as Modified Julian Date. The position error at mean epoch of
observation, the estimated (x,y) error from CCD frame measurements and the
number of contributing positions in the WFI mosaics are also furnished. Two
flags are included. One indicates if the star belongs to the UCAC2 or 2MASS
catalogs. The other flag indicates astrometric position multiplicity in the WFI
mosaic solutions (see details in Sect. 4 of the related paper, Assafin et al.
2012). For refined astrometry, the user should only use stars with this flag
equal to zero. The position error is estimated from repeatability, by the
standard deviation (mean error) of contributing individual CCD positions about
the final catalog star positions (last iteration in global mosaic solution - see
Sect. 3 of the related paper, Assafin et al. 2012). By default, multiple entry
flagged stars have no position error estimates. Complementary to these position
errors, the (x,y) errors from CCD frame measurements (2-D Gaussian fits to the
star image profiles) and the number of contributing positions per star in the
WFI mosaics may also be used to weight the positions. Proper motions were
computed using the 2MASS as first epoch. If it was not a 2MASS star, the USNO
B1.0 catalog was used instead. If it was neither a 2MASS nor a USNO B1.0 star,
no proper motion was computed. The second epoch position came from the WFI
astrometry. Since only two epochs/positions were used in computations, no
proper motion error estimates could be derived. For UCAC2 stars, proper motions
were directly extracted from that catalog. The catalog flag allows for the
identification of the star catalog used as first epoch. The observations were
made with a broad-band R filter (ESO#844 with lambda_central = 651.725 nm and
delta_lambda = 162.184 nm at FWHM). The magnitudes were derived from PSF
photometry, but since they were calibrated in the UCAC2 system, magnitude
zero-point errors up to 0.3 might be expected for R > 17. The infrared
magnitudes were extracted from the 2MASS catalog. Their typical errors are less
than 0.6, 0.040 and 0.040 for magnitudes J, H and K, respectively.

For each TNO, we give separate catalogs labelled per year. Each year
corresponds to the observed sky path. For some TNOs, there are small gaps
without catalog stars between the years, corresponding to sky regions where, as
seen from Earth, the Sun is too close to the TNO direction at date. The catalog
entries are ordered by crescent declination.

File Summary:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 FileName      Lrecl    Records    Explanations
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ReadMeCT.txt      80          .    This file
az_2009c.dat     120      46474    Catalog star positions sky path 2009 2003AZ84
az_2010c.dat     120      41496    Catalog star positions sky path 2010 2003AZ84
az_2011c.dat     120      44041    Catalog star positions sky path 2011 2003AZ84
az_2012c.dat     120      41458    Catalog star positions sky path 2012 2003AZ84
az_2013c.dat     120      31835    Catalog star positions sky path 2013 2003AZ84
az_2014c.dat     120      39491    Catalog star positions sky path 2014 2003AZ84
az_2015c.dat     120      33925    Catalog star positions sky path 2015 2003AZ84
ers2008c.dat     120       4221    Catalog star positions sky path 2008 Eris
ers2009c.dat     120       2328    Catalog star positions sky path 2009 Eris
ers2010c.dat     120       3709    Catalog star positions sky path 2010 Eris
ers2011c.dat     120       2641    Catalog star positions sky path 2011 Eris
ers2012c.dat     120       4449    Catalog star positions sky path 2012 Eris
ers2013c.dat     120       2733    Catalog star positions sky path 2013 Eris
ers2014c.dat     120       2641    Catalog star positions sky path 2014 Eris
ers2015c.dat     120       2963    Catalog star positions sky path 2015 Eris
hau2009c.dat     120       7942    Catalog star positions sky path 2009 Haumea
hau2010c.dat     120       8070    Catalog star positions sky path 2010 Haumea
hau2011c.dat     120      14183    Catalog star positions sky path 2011 Haumea
hau2012c.dat     120      14405    Catalog star positions sky path 2012 Haumea
hau2013c.dat     120      13147    Catalog star positions sky path 2013 Haumea
hau2014c.dat     120      13636    Catalog star positions sky path 2014 Haumea
hau2015c.dat     120       6477    Catalog star positions sky path 2015 Haumea
ixi2009c.dat     120     181062    Catalog star positions sky path 2009 Ixion
ixi2010c.dat     120     361068    Catalog star positions sky path 2010 Ixion
ixi2011c.dat     120     467295    Catalog star positions sky path 2011 Ixion
ixi2012c.dat     120     645863    Catalog star positions sky path 2012 Ixion
ixi2013c.dat     120     745255    Catalog star positions sky path 2013 Ixion
ixi2014c.dat     120     685658    Catalog star positions sky path 2014 Ixion
ixi2015c.dat     120     366634    Catalog star positions sky path 2015 Ixion
mak2009c.dat     120       7949    Catalog star positions sky path 2009 Makemake
mak2010c.dat     120       6946    Catalog star positions sky path 2010 Makemake
mak2011c.dat     120      10234    Catalog star positions sky path 2011 Makemake
mak2012c.dat     120      10893    Catalog star positions sky path 2012 Makemake
mak2013c.dat     120      11149    Catalog star positions sky path 2013 Makemake
mak2014c.dat     120      10718    Catalog star positions sky path 2014 Makemake
mak2015c.dat     120       6598    Catalog star positions sky path 2015 Makemake
orc2008c.dat     120       8004    Catalog star positions sky path 2008 Orcus
orc2009c.dat     120       8320    Catalog star positions sky path 2009 Orcus
orc2010c.dat     120      10357    Catalog star positions sky path 2010 Orcus
orc2011c.dat     120       6034    Catalog star positions sky path 2011 Orcus
orc2012c.dat     120       7308    Catalog star positions sky path 2012 Orcus
orc2013c.dat     120       4496    Catalog star positions sky path 2013 Orcus
orc2014c.dat     120       5900    Catalog star positions sky path 2014 Orcus
orc2015c.dat     120       5623    Catalog star positions sky path 2015 Orcus
qua2008c.dat     120      82761    Catalog star positions sky path 2008 Quaoar
qua2009c.dat     120      60258    Catalog star positions sky path 2009 Quaoar
qua2010c.dat     120      57183    Catalog star positions sky path 2010 Quaoar
qua2011c.dat     120     181903    Catalog star positions sky path 2011 Quaoar
qua2012c.dat     120     302728    Catalog star positions sky path 2012 Quaoar
qua2013c.dat     120     104292    Catalog star positions sky path 2013 Quaoar
qua2014c.dat     120     118417    Catalog star positions sky path 2014 Quaoar
qua2015c.dat     120     242833    Catalog star positions sky path 2015 Quaoar
sed2009c.dat     120       3434    Catalog star positions sky path 2009 Sedna
sed2010c.dat     120       3617    Catalog star positions sky path 2010 Sedna
sed2011c.dat     120       4379    Catalog star positions sky path 2011 Sedna
sed2012c.dat     120       3294    Catalog star positions sky path 2012 Sedna
sed2013c.dat     120       4163    Catalog star positions sky path 2013 Sedna
sed2014c.dat     120       4777    Catalog star positions sky path 2014 Sedna
sed2015c.dat     120       3800    Catalog star positions sky path 2015 Sedna
tx_2008c.dat     120       9189    Catalog star position sky path 2008 2002TX300
tx_2009c.dat     120       8803    Catalog star position sky path 2009 2002TX300
tx_2010c.dat     120       8761    Catalog star position sky path 2010 2002TX300
tx_2011c.dat     120      10761    Catalog star position sky path 2011 2002TX300
tx_2012c.dat     120      11297    Catalog star position sky path 2012 2002TX300
tx_2013c.dat     120      10117    Catalog star position sky path 2013 2002TX300
tx_2014c.dat     120       8804    Catalog star position sky path 2014 2002TX300
tx_2015c.dat     120      15014    Catalog star position sky path 2015 2002TX300
var2009c.dat     120      22001    Catalog star positions sky path 2009 Varuna
var2010c.dat     120      25388    Catalog star positions sky path 2010 Varuna
var2011c.dat     120      19734    Catalog star positions sky path 2011 Varuna
var2012c.dat     120      19251    Catalog star positions sky path 2012 Varuna
var2013c.dat     120      20266    Catalog star positions sky path 2013 Varuna
var2014c.dat     120      18633    Catalog star positions sky path 2014 Varuna
var2015c.dat     120      14768    Catalog star positions sky path 2015 Varuna
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See also:
          J/A+A/???/??? : Prediction tables of stellar occultations by Eris,
          Haumea, Makemake, Quaoar, Orcus, Sedna, Varuna, Ixion, 2002TX300
          and 2003AZ84 for 2008-2015 (Assafin+, 2012)

Byte-by-byte Description of "*c.dat" files: az_2009c.dat, ... , var_2015c.dat
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Bytes Format Units   Label    Explanations
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   2- 14  F13.9 deg     RAdeg    Right ascension (J2000) at mean epoch (degrees)
  16- 28  F13.9 deg     DEdeg    Declination (J2000) at mean epoch (degrees)
  30- 45  F16.8 days    JD       Mean epoch (Julian Date) of coordinates
  47- 52  I6    mas     PosErr   Right ascension error at mean epoch (1)
  54- 59  I6    mas     PosErr   Declination error at mean epoch (1)
  61- 66  I6    mas/yr  pmRA     Proper motion in Right Ascension (RA*cosDE) (2) 
  68- 73  I6    mas/yr  pmDE     Proper motion in Declination (2)
  75- 80  F6.3  mag     Rmag     Magnitude (apparent) in R band
  82- 87  F6.3  mag     Jmag     Magnitude (apparent) in J band (3)
  89- 94  F6.3  mag     Hmag     Magnitude (apparent) in H band (3)
  96-101  F6.3  mag     Kmag     Magnitude (apparent) in K band (3)
 103-107  I5    mas     e_x      Measured error in CCD frames (x) coordinates
 109-113  I5    mas     e_y      Measured error in CCD frames (y) coordinates
 115-116  I2    ---     o_Obs    Number of observations per position
 118-118  I1    ---     f_cat    Flag on catalog cross-identification (4)
 120-120  I1    ---     f_Pos    Astrometric multiplicity flag (5)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Note (1): Error values marked "999999" mean no estimated errors; this regards to
          astrometric flagged positions or to positions from one observation
Note (2): proper motion values marked "999999" mean no computed proper motions;
          this is because no first epoch position counterpart could be found in
          the 2MASS or USNO B1.0 catalogs
Note (3): J, H or K magnitudes marked "99.999" mean no infrared magnitudes
          available; this means that it is not a 2MASS star
Note (4): flag: 1 = UCAC2 star; 2 = 2MASS star ; 9 = not a UCAC2/2MASS star
Note (5): astrometric multiplicity flags range from 0 to 6:
          flag = 0 : final WFI mosaic star position came from all contributing
                     individual CCD positions within 0.2 arcsec from each
                     other, after the final WFI mosaic solutions; no nearby
                     individual CCD position was identified within 1.5 arcsec of
                     the final catalog star position, indicating good astrometry
          flag = 1 : a number of individual CCD positions was identified within
                     1.5 arcsec of each other; more than one of these individual
                     positions was labeled as a UCAC2 star; the final catalog
                     position assigned for this star came from the average over
                     these individual CCD positions labeled as UCAC2; the same
                     flag is assigned if it refers to the 2MASS catalog (one
                     can distinguish between both cases looking at the catalog
                     flag)
          flag = 2 : a number of individual CCD positions was identified within
                     1.5 arcsec of each other; but only one single of these
                     positions was labeled UCAC2/2MASS; this single position
                     was assigned as the final catalog star position (the
                     catalog flag indicates which catalog is involved - UCAC2 or
                     2MASS)
          flag = 3 : some contributing individual CCD positions were within 0.2
                     arcsec from each other after the final WFI mosaic
                     solutions, but the resulting positions were nearby others
                     within 1.5 arcsec; none of these positions were labeled
                     UCAC2 or 2MASS; here, the final catalog star position
                     assigned for this star came from the entry with highest
                     number (N not equal to 1) of individual position
                     contributions from the WFI mosaic solution
          flag = 4 : same situation as in flag "3", but more than one entry
                     presented the same highest number of individual position
                     contributions; in this case, the final catalog star
                     position assigned for this star came from the single entry
                     with least (x,y) measured errors
          flag = 5 : same situation as in flag "4", but more than one entry
                     presented the same best (x,y) measurement errors; in this
                     case, the final catalog star position assigned for this
                     star came from the single entry with brightest R magnitude
          flag = 6 : same situation as in flag "5", but more than one entry
                     presented the same brightest R magnitudes; in this case,
                     the final catalog star position assigned for this star came
                     from the average over all detected multiple entries
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Acknowledgements: Marcelo Assafin  <massaf@astro.ufrj.br>

References:
================================================================================
(End)                            Marcelo Assafin [UFRJ/OV, Brazil]   22-Mar-2012
